This is the design doc for the game that will run on this software.

I want it to be space-based, at least partially.  Here's an idea...

There is the Empire.  It is big and powerful and widely distributed, and
interstellar FTL doesn't work.  So it's a bit like the Empire in 40k, in that
most of what it does is run interstellar shit, and let planetary governers do
whatever they want.  There are all sorts of races and sub-civilizations and
such, possibly no real foreign threats.  Rebellion is crushed with an iron
fist, taxes are paid, and beyond that they dont' care that much.

Jerrad Holm (to pick a name at random), has recently been appointed Arch-Duke
(because Arch-Duke is an awesome title) of a frontier system.  There's like, a
hundred people there, so he's going around getting shit set up and microing
colonies and basically playing Alien Legacy.

The system has some asteroids, and a gas giant full of moons, and a reasonably
Earth-y planet with a space elevator on it.  You probably start in the halfway
station on the elevator, deciding whether to go up or down (not that you can't
choose again later).


I want real and cool space gameplay, with exploration, combat, crazy peoples,
and other sweet stuff.  It'd be nice, at least.  We'll see if I want to do
that much writing and programming.  


Ideas: Real Economy, to some extent or another.  Or at least Real Game
Economy.  Players get money and spend it on shit, shit gets used up or blowed
up, and so on.

Skill system?  Maybe.  It could be a good and simple method of advancement, if
you keep it general enough...

Escape pods, somewhat like EVE.  Except they don't get blowed up, so you don't
bother with all this clone bullshit.  Murderers just get fucked up hardcore.

Pirates and rebels could both be problems.  They will probably take part of
the economy to some extent, so if they players go and shoot up pirates a lot,
the pirates run out of money and can't do shit.  Of course, various political
type people might fund them for their own reasons...

Needs an Altar of Literacy before you create a character.



Coded infrastructure:
Ships
Space movement
EVA(?)
Space combat
Space mining
Economy

Use 'crew' as a fundamental unit, and have people with varying stats that
affect the operation of the ship when part of the crew?  Might be a bit
twinky with alts, might be a bit overdetailed with character systems

Reputation among NPC's?  Faction standing, sorta.

Economy
Sources:
NPC's (planet-based industries will sell food)
Mining
Refining/Manufacturing (value enhancement)
Trade (value enhancement)

Sinks:
NPC's (planet-based industries will buy metals)
Maintainence (ships, rent, etc)
Combat
Regular expenditures (mining drones, fuel, paying crew, munitions, etc)

Commodities:
Commodities should be game-useful to make a real economy.  Thus, items that
players would want to produce and/or consume, not just a something to turn
time into money.
Minerals
Refined goods: metal, fuel, polymers
Simple/complex organics (ammonia vs. corn)
Finished (ship) goods (weapons, ship bits)
Fuel
Ammo
Food?
Information? (maps, rumors...)
Radioactives?

Jobs:
Prospecting
Mining
Trading
Guarding/patrolling
Bounty hunting
Piracy
